---
authors: [Amir Chaudhry]
categories: [News]
title: "Weekly Meeting: 2015-09-30"
permalink: /wiki/weekly-2015-09-30
date: 2015-09-30
layout: page
---

30th September 2015: Functoria, Irmin plans, numbering and Pioneers

### Agenda ###

- Functoria
- Irmin roadmap
- Version numbering
- Pioneer Projects

Attendees:
Reynir Björnsson, Daniel Bünzli, Amir Chaudhry (chair), Justin Cormack,
Thomas Gazagnaire, David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Anil Madhavapeddy,
Mindy Preston, Dave Scott, Magnus Skjegstad, Guybrush Threepwood and
Jim Tittlser


### Notes ###

#### Functoria ####

*See [mirage/mirage#441][]*

There's been work towards a new EDSL that's captured in a library called
Functoria.  We discussed this last time and it needed rebasing due to an
earlier `.xl` patch being merged.

Things have been cleaned up with the patch but it seems there have been some
issues with Travis, which someone needs to take a closer look at.  Someone
also needs to review and test the patch (Anil will do this, feedback from
others also welcome). The examples should also be checked over.

One thing we know is still missing as there's an opportunity to retain the
shorthand flags we have for `--xen` and `--unix` as part of the configure step.
ThomasG's not had a chance to look at that yet but would be great to keep them
if we can.  There's also been some work on related tools we use (cmdliner), to
add support for environment variables ([dbuenzli/cmdliner@e82fd02][]).

Aside from the code review, there's already a draft blog post prepared (Amir
will review), as well as a note for the [breaking changes][brk-chg] page of
the website (a few things may change for some people).

Getting the IPV6 support in was also blocked on the configuration step too.
Once we've completed the releases around Functoria, we can work on getting an
IPV6 site up! 

[mirage/mirage#441]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/441
[dbuenzli/cmdliner@e82fd02]: https://github.com/dbuenzli/cmdliner/commit/e82fd02842719167c3a04fc7ed0edf9a8036203c
[brk-chg]: https://mirage.io/wiki/breaking-changes

#### Irmin roadmap ####

There are a number of things we can be doing with Irmin so there's a question
of how we decide what exactly what we should work on next. It seems people
have lists of things they'd like to get done but pulling these into a clearer
plan would be helpful.

ThomasL can compile Irmin to Javascript and then call it from Javascript.
It's a bit ugly but can be done and talks more about 'repos' and 'branches'
rather than 'stores'.  This might be something to make more consistent within
Irmin.  Would also like to get rid of `create` and clean up the webserver.
Built an [Irmin-based webserver][irmin-www] but is currently missing the
ability to 'push to the server' and 'pull from the server'.
You can see the Irmin JS bindings at [talex5/irmin-js][].
ThomasL is still new to Javascript so would be very happy to hear from anyone
who can show him a better syntax for the examples. There's an attempt at:
<https://github.com/talex5/irmin-js/blob/master/examples/tests.js>

ThomasG is currently focused on upstreaming patches from work that Mounir did
earlier this year (chunking and encryption).  This is going well and involves
some minimal changes to the API.  The main change is a new link store (where
you can store links between keys).

There are also improvements to be made on the REST API — which kind of isn't
at the moment! It would be great if someone would be able to take look at that.
For now, the only users of this are the Go bindings.  Given this, perhaps we
can look at other REST implementations, then (re)write the bindings with the
API we'd like and then modify Irmin. 

ThomasL also noticed a lot of memory usage while working with `ocaml-git` and
wondered what might be going on.  Amir mentioned that we'd seen this before
during work on 'cosmetrics' and Christophe filed issues with test cases (e.g.
[mirage/irmin#263][] and [mirage/ocaml-git#125][]). Any assistance with these
would be appreciated!

Although all the above are useful things to work on, the most important thing
to solve is the garbage collection, because it hasn't been worked on yet. At
the moment it's enough to shell out to `git gc` but we need to take care about
locking and following the Git model properly.

In the short term, ThomasG is making a 0.9.10 release now with some changes
and is happy to let ThomasL improve the API beyond that.  The next release
will have no 1st class modules so a few things will break, including [Jitsu][].
ThomasG will talk to people affected by such changes and support any
transitions (this a good reason to add relevant projects to the
[list of Irmin users][irmin-users]. ThomasG then knows who's stuff he might be
breaking ☺ )

[irmin-www]: https://github.com/talex5/irmin-www
[talex5/irmin-js]: https://github.com/talex5/irmin-js
[mirage/irmin#263]: https://github.com/mirage/irmin/issues/263
[mirage/ocaml-git#125]: https://github.com/mirage/ocaml-git/issues/125
[irmin-users]: https://github.com/mirage/irmin/blob/master/README.md#use-cases
[Jitsu]: https://github.com/mirage/jitsu

#### Version numbering ####

After the last call, we started a discussion on aspects of release numbering
(see the [thread][v-num]). It seems this is a difficult problem to discuss by
email as we can't try to solve the general problem.

This discussion came about as we will soon release functoria and a new `mirage`
tool which will introduce a few incompatible changes. Hence we also thought
about how we bump version numbers of certain libraries.

Related to this is the question of what it means to have a 'version' of
MirageOS, which occasionally crops up. This is complicated by the fact that
were talking about a [library OS][wiki] and the libraries necessarily have
their own versions — and people can pick and choose what they need for their
own purposes.  It may be stating the obvious but MirageOS is more than the
`mirage` tool itself, even though this is what people may interact with the
most (e.g. it's natural to think of trying `mirage --version` to find out what
you have installed). Having said this, when we've released a collection of new
things with new functionality we still label them as '[MirageOS v1.0][v1]',
'[MirageOS v2.0][v2]' and '[MirageOS v2.5][v2.5]' in news announcements and
this (broadly) maps to the version of the `mirage` tool at the time.

Daniel pointed out that we can think of this in two aspects.  The first aspect
is the API that developers will program against and the second is the tooling
around the API.  When the the tooling changes, then although some things are
affected, it's limited to those parts that make use of that tooling.  In this
case, the effects on the `config.ml` files is something that affects the
tooling, so isn't a 'major' change.  A change in the API would have a wider
impact.

This also led to some discussion about how we think of API versions and even
whether we should be having one opam package per module type. We still need to
think more about these things though.

In the meantime, one suggestion was to adjust the output of `mirage --version`
so that it produces more information about what's installed (perhaps something
similar to `opam config report`).  That would be useful to manage the
expectations between the `mirage` tool itself and what we talk about in news
announcements. Whatever changes we make need to be thought about, since this
output should be readable programatically.

In any case, we should take care to continue to communicate
[breaking changes][brk-chg] clearly as well as putting out
[release notes][releases].

<!--
Since we were discussing numbering, Amir was really hoping to insert a joke
about off-by-one errors — but that didn't happen. So he left this HTML comment
here as lamentation :-P
-->

[v-num]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2015-09/msg00021.html
[wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unikernel
[v1]: https://mirage.io/blog/announcing-mirage10
[v2]: https://mirage.io/blog/announcing-mirage-20-release
[v2.5]: https://mirage.io/blog/announcing-mirage-25-release
[releases]: https://mirage.io/releases/

#### Pioneer Projects ####

MirageOS is taking part in [Outreachy][] this year, via Xen Project.  A number
of people have already been in touch (which is great!) and we've reviewed our
[project list][] already.  If anyone is interested in a project, please
[email the list][mir-mail] and let us know!

[Outreachy]: https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreachy/2015/DecemberMarch#Participating_Organizations
[project list]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Pioneer-Projects

--

#### AoB ####

- Anil is trying to do more automated builds around mirage/mirage and using
CISO to build on pushes.  Hopefully can retire is-mirage-broken when this is
done.

- Dave has been working on the `xl` files stuff and has a small roadmap
([mirage/mirage#443][]) with a few issues in it.  Will go through this in the
background over time and slowly improve the deployment steps.

- The OpenBSD port is nearly complete but it needs a release of `nocrypto` to
be able to finish it off. DavidK will look at this and release when ready.

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 14th October**. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[mirage/mirage#443]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/issues/443
[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
