---
authors: [Amir Chaudhry]
categories: [News]
title: "Weekly Meeting: 2015-03-25"
permalink: /wiki/weekly-2015-03-25
date: 2015-03-25
layout: page
---

25th Mar 2015: Security advisory processes, TLS update and requests

### Agenda ###

- Security advisory process
- TLS status
- Quality and Test
- Mirage.io status
- 3.0 Planning

Attendees:
Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Matthew Gray, Sean Grove,
David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Hannes Mehnert, Nicolas Ojeda Bar,
Mindy Preston and Magnus Skjegstad


### Notes ###

#### Security advisory process #### 

Hannes brought up that at the moment, the project doesn't have a method for
dealing with security advisories or incoming reports of security issues.  We
should set up some form of advisory system.  This would likely include a
website that lists known security vulnerabilities and might also include a
mailing list for people to report critical issues.  This would be more general
than just for TLS and should cover anything MirageOS-related.

Amir mentioned that Xen Project already has such a process so it's worth
looking at that and seeing what we can adopt from it, rather than having to
invent everything from scratch.  In order to keep this moving, Amir suggested
that Hannes submit a page to the site as an RFC on the procedure we should
follow. 

<!-- TG excalims that there are no critical bugs.  -->

#### TLS status ####

Still thinking about entropy in the security stack. We're currently using the
internal APIs of `nocrypto`, which is not ideal and we'd like to adjust this
to have a better abstraction. The original idea was that the RNG would extract
ambient entropy and use that for crypto purposes but it seems but it seems
that no-one else really needs/uses entropy. It appears that for most other
users, a pseudo-random stream is sufficient for their purposes.

We need to think about this carefully and it will involve more in-person
discussion. It's a hairball as things are not necessarily in the right places 
currently) and there's the risk of confusion as people add their own entropy
sources for specific purposes — poor changes propagate through people's code
bases. It's not just consumers of entropy but also providers of entropy that
need to be addressed.  This leads to several structural issues and we need to
figure out what to do.  An open question is how many people expect to write
code that needs an entropy interface.

Getting the entropy story figured out will likely delay the next point-release
of Mirage (2.4.0) — if it isn't fixed.  DavidK will send an email to the
mailing list to continue this discussion.
*\[Edit: The thread is ["Update on entropy"][mail-entropy].\]*

[mail-entropy]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2015-03/msg00117.html


#### Quality and test #### 

There's work towards a virtual network interface, which can run TCP and iperf
tests at the moment.  The goal is to be able to test the network stack but
without needing an *actual* network (test between unikernels). At the moment,
it's just been tested with two unikernels and we've reported issues with `Lwt`.
If (and only if) you add a delay on write, then it works ok (this was
discussed on the mailing list).  Will stick with two unikernels for now and
later on, we can add support for more.  Also done some work on netfront and
pcap and used them to do some simple tests for now.  In time, we should be
able to write some meaningful tests 

At the moment, not many people have had a chance to look at coveralls and
bisect on Dave's repos — Mindy's had a look but ThomasG hasn't yet.


#### Mirage.io status ####

Last status was that the second Bytemark machine was being reinstalled to run
a version of Xenserver (with xapi).  The idea is that this would then host the
Mirage website. We need Anil present to discuss this so this item is moved to
the next call.


#### 3.0 Planning ####

Following on from the [previous discussion][prev-rdmp] a month ago, it's
becoming clear that there's an emphasis on improving quality of the libs.
which means better tests.  Amir will summarise where things are with the
thoughts around the 3.0 release and send to the list before the next time we
discuss this.

[prev-rdmp]: http://openmirage.org/wiki/weekly-2015-02-25#30Planning
[roadmap]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Roadmap

-- 

#### AoB ####

- **Irmin update**: ThomasG is still working on getting feedback upstreamed
and improving the API. The big thing missing is having a garbage collector.
Over the weekend ThomasL transferred all his items to the browser and changed
to using IndexDB which does not have a quota limit. ThomasL will write a blog
post about this for others to follow. Noted that a JS backend for Irmin as
separate lib might be good. 

- **State of Docs**: A new user commented that they had a tricky time with
documentation and that figuring out how to use our existing libs has been more
difficult than necessary (specifically with Irmin). There's a pretty
significant learning curve even if you know OCaml. In the case of Irmin, it
would be much better if the examples themselves actually worked. In general,
it would be good to be able to test such examples on an ongoing basis 
automatically).

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 8th April**, but there are
indications that we may need to delay it by a day - Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
