---
authors: [Amir Chaudhry]
categories: [News]
title: "Weekly Meeting: 2015-12-16"
permalink: /wiki/weekly-2015-12-16
date: 2015-12-16
layout: page
---

16th December 2015: Conduit, Unikernel Events and end of 2015!

### Agenda ###

- vchan and conduit
- Unikernel Events
  - CIF16 (CfP closes 19 Dec, event is in Pasadena CA on 22 Jan)
  - Hello World party
  - Hackathon
- Blog posts
  - Status updates (unikernel.org, Charrua, end-of-year)
- Pioneer Projects
  - review of list (1 star projects esp)
  - outreachy (progress so far)
- Last call of 2015!

Attendees:
Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Leonard, Jon Ludlam, Mindy Preston, Dave Scott, 
Dan Williams, Jeremy Yallop, Wassim.

### Notes ###

#### vchan and conduit ####

- JonL not had a chance to look at vchan. Hopefully will have more time soon.
- It comes up during the logging discussions and etc.
- Mindy has used conduit, but can't really answer q's for others. Reminder
that `Conduit` is a an abstraction over networking things, including `vchan`.

#### Functoria ####

- Jeremy submitted a patch and Thomas merged. 
- JonL made it work this time (possible that last time was due to older
MiniOS). Had to pin `mirage-xen-bootvar` repo as released version didn't work. 
- Magnus has been looking after that. Has merged all patches submitted and
will check if we need a release. Mindy and JonL will then try.
- Drup's patch is important to look at.  That was also merged last night.
Folks should try Functoria master branch.


#### Unikernel Events ####

**Cloud Innovator Forum** — Submitted three proposals. Some would rather be at
dev/winter but will submit anyway.  Jeremy can help prep something. Dan will
submit a talk to CIF16.

**Unikernel install party** — Some folks would like this. Who's going to lead?
Needs a date (Feb 22nd?). Mindy can help but not be responsible for
organisation.

**MirageOS hackathon** — Seems there are a bunch of ppl interested. 


#### Blog posts ####


**MirageOS end-of-year review** — Status update.  Jeremy made a list of things
to look at.  If someone from community with an outsider perspective would like
to help with this, that would be great. Our understanding is that Anil will
write this.

**Unikernel.org post** - Ok to merge?

**Charrua post** - Will merge this post tomorrow. Mort to check things work.


#### Pioneer Projects ####

**1 star projects** — Should review the list.  Email list to ask for more
projects. Maybe add time-rating.

**Outreachy** — One student will be working on NTP. Should invite them to join
the calls.

#### Last call of 2015! ####

Happy holidays!

--

#### AoB ####

- TL been adding netback support. Messing with Dave's and it's working and can
send packets. Looking at Mindy's NAT lib - soon to make firewall for QubesOS! 

- The next call is scheduled for **NEXT YEAR!** Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
