---
authors: [Amir Chaudhry]
categories: [News]
title: "Weekly Meeting: 2015-11-11"
permalink: /wiki/weekly-2015-11-11
date: 2015-11-11
layout: page
---

11th November 2015: Functoria, Logs, Protocol lists and unikernel logos

### Agenda ###

- Functoria release
- Logging
- Pioneer Projects
- List of Protocols
- mirage-www deployment
- Unikernel logo contest


Attendees:
Atluxitiv, Daniel Bunzli, Amir Chaudhry (chair), Justin Cormack,
Thomas Gazagnaire, David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Anil Madhavapeddy,
Richard (Mort) Mortier, Mindy Preston, Gabriel Radanne and Dave Scott


### Notes ###

#### Functoria release ####

*See release tracking in [mirage/mirage#447][]*

Work on functoria is progressing and ThomasG finished doing his review and is
generally happy with the PRs. There are a few issues to deal with that are not
related to functoria itself.  The most important issues have been resolved. A
few people have tried things and said they were happy with it. It would really
benefit from more public testing and we've asked MattG to take a look.

Need to fix the `mirage-www` deployment scripts first (see below) and then use
functoria there and see that it works properly. Gabriel offered to redo the
commits that ThomasG had to revert.

Mindy and Jeremy have also been trying to write a front end to functoria
(ncurses etc) — Mindy was trying to write a JavaScript one. This would
showcase the other side of functoria for users of the libs (rather than just
for MirageOS developers).

There's a blog post to go along with the release ([mirage/mirage-www#369][]),
which has been reviewed and the remaining TODOs have been addressed. Waiting
for a few things to be fixed before release and we don't want to rush this.
The next step will be to begin tagging things.

[mirage/mirage#447]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/issues/447
[mirage/mirage-www#369]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/pull/396


#### Logging ####

A few people are trying out Daniel's [Logs][] library. It would be good if
ThomasL can take a look at it in an `lwt` context. It's actually being tried
out in the ocaml-9p lib ([mirage/ocaml-9p#18][]).  We might be able to use
this in functoria but needs more discussion.

We should prod for more of the logging discussion to happen on the main
[mailing list][mir-mail].

[mirage/ocaml-9p#18]: https://github.com/mirage/ocaml-9p/pull/18
[Logs]: http://erratique.ch/software/logs


#### Pioneer Projects ####

**Outreachy** — We're still in the [Outreachy][] process and Hannes has been
taking care of things. The current stage is the application process so we're
waiting to hear the outcome (due on 17th Nov).

**Charrua** — There's a PR to `mirage-skeleton` to look at
([mirage/mirage-skeleton#105][]), which should be tried out. Currently, it
doesn't seem to compile with OCaml 4.01 so should fix that and come back. Mort
will look in on this and report back in the next call.

[Outreachy]: https://wiki.gnome.org/Outreachy/2015/DecemberMarch#Participating_Organizations
[mirage/mirage-skeleton#105]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-skeleton/pull/105


#### List of implemented protocols ####

There was a suggestion to create a list of implemented protocols and their
status. This means manually making a list on the wiki-page. There was a
reminder that we also want to start using the Opam metadata tags to track the
MirageOS libraries in Opam — adding a `protocol` tag might help filter these.
Sometimes you need more data that you'd find in the opam metadata field so a
wiki-page is still useful.

The types of Opam tags were also discussed as we would use one to denote those
libraries that are maintained by MirageOS and others that offer certain
features that MirageOS can make use of.


#### mirage-www deployment issues ####

*See discussion in [mirage/mirage-www#404][]*

Recently there have been a few issues with the MirageOS website unikernel. 
We've now put couple of fixes in scripts so they're run from outside the
`script` directory and things should start properly.  Also pushed a PR this
morning that will remove all the old bzip images as we don't need them.
Haven't yet updated the TravisCI scripts to remove the old scripts.

A suggestion that having an Opam repo hash would be useful (i.e. the state of
Opam repo at the time the unikernel was built).  That way we can reconstruct
anything with the just the hash and the config.ml

There were issues with `xvda` and `xvdb`, where it seems there was a mismatch
between assumptions in the various scripts. ThomasG can try to test things on
the live site today.

We also want to get [blobs.openmirage.org][blobs] running as a unikernel too,
probably using the `Crunch` file system.  However, this will need to have
something dynamically attached so will need to work on that.

[mirage/mirage-www#404]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/issues/404
[blobs]: http://blobs.openmirage.org


#### Unikernel logo contest

Amir has started a [Unikernel Logo contest][logo] on 99designs. The intent is
to come up with a design that the community can use to promote unikernels. 
The initial phase is to prepare a brief and then allow designers to submit
initial designs.  At some point, the process needs to involve more members of
the community so their views can also be incorporated (though we should be
wary of 'design by committee').  This process is likely to take several weeks
— it shouldn't be rushed as we intend to use the winning logo for some time.

At the moment, there are 211 logos to look through!

[logo]: http://99designs.co.uk/logo-design/contests/make-fun-logo-open-source-unikernel-projects-562612

--

#### AoB ####

- Delayed notes: apologies that notes have not been on the website quickly
after the call.  Suggestion that perhaps we put them on a GitHub wiki and
build the website from there (using functoria).

- `nocrypto` on OpenBSD - DavidK has been working on this and needs feedback.
Things are broken on OpenBSD as versions of `gcc` etc seem to be different.
Anil can try this out and also suggested emailing OpenBSD ports. Once things
work, we can cut a release!

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 25th November**. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[mirage/mirage#443]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/issues/443
[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
